Generic Field Type tutorial (#733)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/tutorials/generic_field_type/6_settings.md

# Step 6 - Implement Point 2D settings

Implementing settings allows you to define in what format the field is shown on the page.
To do so, you will create the `format` field where you will be able to change the way coordinates for Point 2D are displayed.

## Define Field Type format

In this step you will create the `format` field for Point 2D coordinates.

> To do that, you need to define `SettingsSchema` definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do that, you need to define a `SettingsSchema` definition.
```

use App\Form\Type\Point2DSettingsType;
use eZ\Publish\API\Repository\Values\ContentType\FieldDefinition;
use eZ\Publish\SPI\FieldType\Value;
use EzSystems\RepositoryForms\Data\FieldDefinitionData;

final class Type extends GenericType implements FieldValueFormMapperInterface
{
    public function getSettingsSchema(): array
    {
        return [
            'format' => [
                'type' => 'string',
                'default' => '(%x%, %y%)',
            ],
        ];
    }
}
```

## Add a format field

Define `Point2DSettingsType` class and add `format` field in `src/Form/Type/Point2DSettingsType.php`:

```php
<?php
declare(strict_types=1);
namespace App\Form\Type;

use Symfony\Component\Form\AbstractType;
use Symfony\Component\Form\Extension\Core\Type\TextType;
use Symfony\Component\Form\FormBuilderInterface;

...

final class Point2DSettingsType extends AbstractType
{
    public function buildForm(FormBuilderInterface $builder, array $options)
    {
        $builder->add('format', TextType::class);
    }
}
```

## FieldDefinitionFormMapper Interface

Now, enable user to add the coordinates which will be validated.
In `src/FieldType/Point2D/Type.php` you will:
 

> - inject `FieldDefinitionFormMapperInterface` extension implementing `EzSystems\RepositoryForms\FieldType\FieldDefinitionFormMapperInterface`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- inject the `FieldDefinitionFormMapperInterface` extension implementing `EzSystems\RepositoryForms\FieldType\FieldDefinitionFormMapperInterface`
```

- add a `mapFieldDefinitionForm` at the end, it will define the field settings

```php
<?php
namespace App\FieldType\Point2D;

use EzSystems\RepositoryForms\FieldType\FieldDefinitionFormMapperInterface;

> ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// ...
```

final class Type extends GenericType implements FieldValueFormMapperInterface, FieldDefinitionFormMapperInterface

> ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// ...
```

    public function mapFieldDefinitionForm(FormInterface $fieldDefinitionForm, FieldDefinitionData $data)
    {
        $fieldDefinitionForm->add('fieldSettings', Point2DSettingsType::class, [
            'label' => false
        ]);
    }
```

## Add a new tag

Next, add `FieldDefinitionFormMapper` as an extra tag definition in `config/services.yaml`:

```yaml
tags:
    - { name: ezplatform.field_type.form_mapper.definition, fieldType: point2d }
```

## Field Type definition

> To be able to display new `format` field, you need to add a template for it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be able to display the new `format` field, you need to add a template for it.
```

# Step 6 - Implement Point 2D settings

> Implementing settings enables you to define in what format the Field is shown on the page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Implementing settings enables you to define the format for displaying the Field on the page.
```

> To do so, you will create the `format` field where you will be able to change the way coordinates for Point 2D are displayed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To do so, you will create the `format` field enabling you to change the way the coordinates for Point 2D are displayed.
```

            ],
        ];
    }
    public function mapFieldValueForm(FormInterface $fieldForm, FieldData $data)
    {
        $definition = $data->fieldDefinition;
        $fieldForm->add('value', Point2DType::class, [
            'required' => $definition->isRequired,
            'label' => $definition->getName()
        ]);
    }
}
```

## Add a format field

Define a `Point2DSettingsType` class and add a `format` field in `src/Form/Type/Point2DSettingsType.php`:

```php
<?php
declare(strict_types=1);

namespace App\Form\Type;

use Symfony\Component\Form\AbstractType;
use Symfony\Component\Form\Extension\Core\Type\TextType;
use Symfony\Component\Form\FormBuilderInterface;

final class Point2DSettingsType extends AbstractType

{
    public function buildForm(FormBuilderInterface $builder, array $options)
    {
        $builder->add('format', TextType::class);
    }
}
```

## FieldDefinitionFormMapper Interface

Now, enable the user to add the coordinates which will be validated.
In `src/FieldType/Point2D/Type.php` you will:
 
- inject the `FieldDefinitionFormMapperInterface` extension implementing `EzSystems\RepositoryForms\FieldType\FieldDefinitionFormMapperInterface`

> - add a `mapFieldDefinitionForm` at the end, it will define the field settings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- add a `mapFieldDefinitionForm` at the end that will define the field settings
```

            'label' => false
        ]);
    }
```

## Add a new tag

Next, add `FieldDefinitionFormMapper` as an extra tag definition for `App\FieldType\Point2D\Type` in `config/services.yaml`:

```yaml
tags:
    - { name: ezplatform.field_type.form_mapper.definition, fieldType: point2d }
```

## Field Type definition

To be able to display the new `format` field, you need to add a template for it.
Create `templates/field_type_definition.html.twig`:

```html+twig
{% block point2d_field_definition_edit %}
    <div class="{% if group_class is not empty %}{{ group_class }}{% endif %}">
        {{- form_label(form.fieldSettings.format) -}}
        {{- form_errors(form.fieldSettings.format) -}}
        {{- form_widget(form.fieldSettings.format) -}}
    </div>
{% endblock %}
```

### Add configuration for the format field

Next, provide the template mapping in `config/packages/ezplatform.yaml`:

```yaml
ezplatform:
    system:
        default:
            # ...
            fielddefinition_edit_templates:
                - { template: 'field_type_definition.html.twig', priority: 0 }
```

## Redefine template

> Finally redefine the Point 2D template so it accommodates the new `format` field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, redefine the Point 2D template so it accommodates the new `format` field.
```

# Step 6 - Implement Point 2D settings

Implementing settings enables you to define the format for displaying the Field on the page.
To do so, you will create the `format` field where you will be able to change the way coordinates for Point 2D are displayed.

## Define Field Type format

In this step you will create the `format` field for Point 2D coordinates.
To do that, you need to define a `SettingsSchema` definition.

> You will also specify coordinates as a placeholder values `%x%` and `%y%`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will also specify coordinates as placeholder values `%x%` and `%y%`.
```
